While wandering on QQ zone, a message of a senior student showing his 9-hour sleep in total within 3 days caught my eyes, which recalls my own extreme experience burning my night oil.
	It's always peaceful before the tempest, just as the saying goes, the story began in a rather common incident. It was the time when we programmers eventually attained the fully access to the whole robot, also, when there was only a week before the official competition. Excited and worried, I together with my partner Ziyue Hua made a specific plan to adjust the robot, in which we would fix the bug in the first 2 days and then use different strategies in the later 5 days. However, things didn't worked as we hoped. At the time we finally made it to adjust the robots to roughly run directly, turn accurately and connect stably, there was only 3 days left. As a result, we got to realize there's no solution but spending more time on it. We made another plan, in which we burnt the night oil working on the robot until the competition ends.
	Tell the truth, the first night wasn't so tiring. Contrarily, it was indeed a little exciting. Just guess a pair of programmer working in the team's room where you see no light outside the windows and hear no sound except your partner's voice and the roaring of motors, tracks and chains. The chilly wind streamed beside your body, making your mind even clearer and sharper than common daytimes. By some means, I even somehow liked the feeling of staying up late at that time.
However, the side-effect gradually came up in the next day. It started by a little tiredness. It's not a true description of having less strength in transporting something, but you can feel it when you are lifting the robot up and put it on the testing field that something potential fiercely delivering you the message urging you to put down the thing in your hands because of the "great heaviness". What's next was headache. At first, it came up to be mild. And as the time went by, it started to go more and more harmful. What's worse, while I was suffering from tiredness and headache, my partner didn't show much of them. As the result, I could not even find someone to share my feelings. In the second night and the third day, the tiredness strengthen itself as every minute passed by.
The third evening came, and triple tiredness came. Miraculously, there was no headache anymore. Instead, what's left was infinite exhaustion forcing me to sleep. There was an extreme contradiction in front of me. On the one hand, I was so tired that it seems I could fall asleep once I got attached to a pole. On the other hand, looking at my partner continuing to work despite black eye orbits and oily face, I felt a sense of responsibility. "How could you carry through that firmly?", shamefully, I asked. And smiling bitterly, he replied, "Is there any other choice?". The words struck me. Truly, there is no other options but continue. Carry it on, and a year's hard work might pay back. Give it up, you will get nothing but a night's nervous sleep. We know how tired we was, and made a decision to take turn to work while the other take a nap. Every time I was waken up, I saw deep exhaustion. And even though the agreed plan was an hour a turn, we made it to about 2 hours----giving more chance for the other too sleep. I should say, you could hardly find a guy fall asleep immediately he throw himself on the ground (in the lab, there was no bed, of course). Luckily, in the end, we made it to run properly before sunrise. Watching the robot getting one and another point in the testing field, we felt a sense of satisfaction. At that time, I was already too tired to even unscrew a bolt. Encouraged, we worked together for another night and finally fixed our sleep in the airplane.
It's unlucky that our robot was seriously damaged in transportation and we didn't get a good grade. However, the passion and insist these nights were something I would never Forget.
